---
_schema: default
title: OLEY, OLEY!
author: Zhanna
date: 2003-09-21
categories:
  - geocaching
  - hiking
  - survey mark hunting
tags:
excerpt: >- 
  
geocaches: true
surveymarks: true
post_id: 2069
layout: post  
galleries:
  gallery1:
    suffix: cs
    images:
    - filename: P9210010
      alt: It's a beautiful day in the neighborhood!   
  gallery2:
    suffix: cs
    images:
    - filename: P9210019
      alt: Gorgeous day for a short hike and a quick find.  
    - filename: P9210006
      alt: Cache contents at the time of our visit.     
  gallery3:
    suffix: cs
    images:
    - filename: ly1542g1
      alt: Eyelevel view of OLEY, showing the nails that indicate the approximate directions of the RMs.
    - filename: ly1543g1
      alt: Eyelevel view of RM 1 and monument.    
    - filename: ly1544g2
      alt: Facing north from RM 2, looking toward the station.            
                 
---

What an adventure OLEY was! After finding the geocache "x, y AND z" just a few miles to the north, Rich and I were in the mood to scout out the area for possible access to certain triangulation stations. We didn't expect that we'd actually complete any hunts today, but once we realized that OLEY should be accessible from one of the designated parking areas for Nescopeck State Park, we decided to give it a try. 

We followed the main trail from the Lower Day-Use Area (this trail was likely once a road, probably the one mentioned in the description) until reaching Nescopeck Creek. The sparse remains of bridges are evident where the road at one time crossed the creek, but they didn't provide a suitable means for crossing it. We eventually crossed on a fallen log further north, and then backtracked down the eastern side of the creek to pick up the woods road once more (at the point where the bridge once carried it across). 

A trek uphill on this overgrown track road and then a short bushwhack through open woods brought us directly to the station. The station mark and RM 1 were easy to spot, but measuring and digging through loose soil were required to expose RM 2, which is now flush with the level of the ground. All marks are in good condition with clear stamping. Interstate 80 is just over 100 yards south of the mark and may provide the simplest means of access. I preferred the hike through the woods and the challenges it provided.

After finding OLEY, we located two roadside benchmarks nearby.

{% include gallery.html gallery_id="gallery3" class="" %}