---
_schema: default
title: "Acadia Adventures 2022 – Day 15"
author: Zhanna
date: "2022-09-21"
categories: 
  - travel
  - acadia
  - '2022'
  - abandoned trails
  - hiking
tags:
excerpt: >-
  
header:
  teaser:
geocaches: false
surveymarks: false
post_id: 14013
layout: post  
---

It was a chily morning when we woke up early, but dry, and the forecast promised a warm (65 degree) mostly sunny day. we took a quick walk to the Mount Dessert Bakery, and found it very busy (the first time in 2 weeks we've gone there and not been the only ones in the place).  Not sure what was happenign tis mornign. In any case, everythign was fine and service was quick, except that the people in line before us bought all the blueberry hand pies! We like to take those on our hikes. The other offersings were too soft and woudl not survive in a pack. Instead we got two croissants, which get squished too, but at least they're still really good when squished. I got a blueberry-cheese-almond danish and R got a plain bagel with veggie cream cheese, and we picked up a few NAtlie's juices (tangerine and guava lemonade).

We sat and ate on the porch, rather chilled but still enjoying the food and each other's company. Tried to figure out what to do today. My vote was to go back to LAke Wood and hike past Fawn Pond again, trying to find the continuation of the road from Breakneck heading up to Lake Wood. But R had legitimate concerns that it would be very wet in there after Monday night's rain, and he also wanted to try somewhere new since we've already been there twice this week. MAde sense to me. He suggested the carriage roads around Little Long Pond, which we dont' think we've ever hiked. They have always somewhat intrigued me because there is this curious tight "loop" shown on the maps that seems to have no apparnet purpose and I always wondered what it looked like and what it was. My only hesistation was that this is not park land but rather belongs to the Land and Garden Preserve, and dogs are allowed here off-leash. We decided to give it a try anyway.

When we arrived, we got hte last spot in the parking lot. Wow! I was not expecting that because all of the other parking areas we passed by on the way, including those for Dorr Mtn trails and Seal harboar Beach, still had pletny of capacity. And when we started in on the trails, they sure were busy. A woman soon came by leading a horse, and used a large rock near the tree R was photographing to mount the horse. She trotted off, but very soon she encountered al arge group of peopel coming down the path and they stopped to talk for quite a while. behind them came another large group of people, and we thought, damn, it's going to be like this the whle way? But fortunately, it wasn't. I suspect these were locals out for a morning walk (with or without dogs) and that they were already on their way out when we were heading into the trais. Actualy, we only saw two people with unleashed dogs. All the others were leashed even though they were free not to be, which we appreciated.

We found some very intersting photographic subjects, and the morning light was pretty good, alhough it turned mostly sunny pretty early on. We also found and followed a small trail (cmplete with cairns) that lead west from the carriage roads toward Little HArbor Brook trail. Along this trail I found tons and tns of cloud lichen, beautiful roc ledges, Bates cairsn, and ... TWO garter snakes! Taht was such a cool entouner. Instead of being up on the open ledges, they wer actualy down abit lower, near some rocks piled to make a cairn. I saw the first snake dart from beneatha a rock as I stepped nearby. I had spooed him. I froze to wathc him and took a few phoots from above. He was beaituful, dark, slim but very long, and quite skittish (I noticed later his cloudy blue eye scales, meaning he was about to shed and was pribably feeling more vulnerable for that reason.) I tried to get closer for a better phto, but he slithered off ahead of me. All of a sudden I thought I saw him again, but it was actually a second snake! HTe first snake slitehred right on top of the second snake and disappeared. But I had agood few minutes with the beautiful second snake, who had more yellow in her scales, and seemed more sedate and shy. She kept dipping her head down intot he vegetation, something I've never seen our garter snakes at home do. Very cute and she did not seem threatened. She stayed mostly in place while i took some photos, and then I headed a bit further down the trail. Once I could see that the trail continued into the woods, I turned around knowing that I can explore further in the future. When I came back up the trail, the snake was gone. 

I met up with R and took hi down the tral too, back to the snake spot. We coud;n't spot either of them. We noted that the trail seems to continue across the carriage road - something else to explore next time!

The rest of our morning was spent exploring the carriage road loop, and that interesitng "circle" we spotted on the map. It was a beautiful, peaceful grassy carriage road loop, just as it appeared. We're tinking maybe it was some kind of turnaround point for cariages? I can't imagine what it could have been if not somethig like that. It reminded me so much of our early trips to Acadia, when you could find thsi kind of peace on Day Mountain. Scent of balsam in the air, pine needles on the ground, rock ledges to explore, Rockefeller's teeth lining the pathway, sunshine, warmth, and _no people_!

Once we returned to the parking lot, I had to take one more look for that elusive BM, K 19. Ther'es always a chance that something happened to expose the ledge! No luck, though, of course. But it wouldn't be a proper trip here without at least trying once.

We noticed the horse trough at the intersection on our way back through Seal Harbor and talked about perhaps looking for the others next time that we had seen metnioned in the Memorials of Acadia blog.

It has been a few years since we could have our final supper at Rosalie's! So glad we had that opportunity tonight. We arrived there early, by 3:40, to make sure we got our favorite booth. Unsurprisingly based on how early people were lined up yesterday, there were already two guys waitnig there this afternoon. And people kept coming! It was very busy in town again today, but it looked like the cruisers (one ship had 4000+ passengers) were leaving by 5om, so they shouldn't have been there. In any case, they opened the doors right at 4pm as usual, and we got our favorite booth. 

Ever since we tried the "house veggie" the other night on half of our medium pizza, we've been wanting to get a whole (small) house veggie. Thats what we did today, also thinking that we might get a calzone if we still had room ( we could always bring some back with us if neceessary). We also had two large Baxter ales. The pizza was fantastic, as expected! After enjoying every bite we decided to try a calzone. We both enjoyed it (and managed to finish the whole thing) but R wasn'tas impressed as he was hoping because it didn't quite match up to what he'd had in the past. We were joking that we should take the remainng sauce with us to get it analyzed. (All week I've been saying that R should pay the guy ehind the counter for the sauce recipe.) 

After supper we took a walk around town (sstill busy but significantly les crazy due to the cruisers being gone). We had to stop at Cadillac Mountain Sports ("it's not a trip to Acadia without stopping at CMS!") We didn't see much in wool hats, clothing, or Keen shoes, but we did end up buying a books called "Hstoric Acadia National Park." It appears to be a high-level overview of the history of the area - although we already know much of this, it can really help to read it over and make sure we have everything in order in our minds. Also, in my experience there is _aways_ somethig new you can learn from these types of books, even if it just brings to light a connection that you hadn't noticed before.

I briefly checked the BH Tea Cmpany for cranberry honey (no luck) and then we went down to the waterfront for a slow, last-evening walk there. It was busy but again, not too crazy since one ship was already gone adn the tenders for the other were leaving one by one.  The sun was setting quickly. R took soem phots as we walked around, enjoying the last view of the waterfront we'll hae for this year. I checked on the 2017 benchmark in the little "village" and found that it was still in place, just that the platform looked dofferent from when we originally found it (no picnic table nearby). On our walk back along West Street, we stoped at La Bella Vita to check out he menu. It looks decent, not overly excitnig, but it also seems warm and quiet in there, so we might be very tempted to check it out next time. It was a little too chily tonight for ice cream. Too bad they never had blueberry basil sorbet this year, or at least not when we were ther. I've missed it, but again, something to look forward to for next year.
