---
title: "Acadia Adventures 2025 – Day 9"
author: Zhanna
date: 2025-09-11
categories: 
  - travel
  - acadia
  - '2025'
  - survey mark hunting
geocaches: false
surveymarks: true
post_id: 14600
layout: post
---

This morning's breakfast was something a little different: bagels from A  Slice of Eden bakery. This was the first morning I went to pick up something for breakfast other than what we can get in the hotel lobby. Not that we were very hungry, but we just wanted a little change of pace. They were excellent as usual. Rich got the whole wheat bagel with veggie cream cheese, while I got the salt & pepper bagel with olive pimento cream cheese. The bagel of the week was cinnamon raisin, while I had really been hoping for rosemary.

While parking to search for our first mark of the day in Hull's Cove, we spotted the adorable Bar Harbor or Bust bus across the highway at the Salt Cottages, a revamp of the old Colony Motel. These cottages are actually very cute and tidy and attractive, and if it was just a bit closer to town I would definitely consider staying there sometime.

12487-51 - Our first mark of the day is a mere 13 meters from a USGS mark we found back in 2007. This one, a MaineDOR survey control disk, was set in 2011, so it wasn't even here the last time we visited this ledge. I just love this area. Although it is literally a few feet away from the highway, something about it feels so peaceful and serene. I would love to sit here and read, or have a snack in the sunshine. Anyway, we found the mark easily, and then confirmed that K 10 (the USGS mark) is still in place (it is). 

IRESON - This mark has been on my list for literally 20 years! We just never got to it before, feeling a little intimidated by the "private" campground and not wanting to disturb any campers or cause a problem. Well, today we just decided to take a drive through and see what the situation looked like. We drove through the various campground loops, and honestly the place was so busy that we just blended in, for the most part. We drove toward the coordinates, which took us to the laundry building, and when we got out of the car I started reading off the description. "Never mind," Rich said. "It's right here!" And there it was, right out in the open on a concrete monument at the corner of a well house (as described by Joe Coffey). The monument was slightly damaged but the disk is in perfect condition.

IRESON RM 1 - This reference mark is likely still in place, but the campground was a bit too busy today for us to feel comfortable digging around too much. We did find one bedrock outcrop at approximately the right distance and direction from the station, but we didn't see the mark anywhere on the parts of the outcrop that we were able to uncover. I would like to plot the coordinates according to the box score and try again.

IRESON RM 2 - The location that the box score plots to is squarely beneath the paved roads of the campground. I don't have much hope that this mark is findable or even still exists.

K 11 - This is quite an intriguing mark. Both the topo map coordinates and the MaineDOT coordinates are off significantly. We actually spotted a likely ledge on Street View when we were researching marks to target last winter, but we almost wrote it off because usually the topo map coordinates are much more accurate (in this case they would have been off by 125 feet or so). When we arrived at the site, though, I could tell that there was no large ledge at the topo coordinates, so Rich parked and I checked the large ledge we'd spotted on Street View. I immediately saw the marker on top! So cool. I'm still trying to figure out which building was the parsonage, if it still exists, and what the discrepancy is with the topo map coordinates. But it was an exciting find, and it's always fun when there is more research to do. 

K 144 - This is another mark that, like IRESON, I can hardly believe it took us this long to get to. Actually, somehow we hadn't even noticed it until this year when we were preparing possible marks to search for on our trip. It's clearly visible on the Street View, and as a bonus, the NGS datasheet lacks both GPS coordinates and photographs, so we were excited to be able to provide them. We found easy parking in the empty lot of the grange hall and walked right up to the mark. As expected, it was in excellent condition, although there are some paint drips across its surface from a sloppy paint job done on the siding above. Still, the stamping is clearly legible. The smell of wood smoke (for steaming the lobsters?) coming from Lunt's Gateway Lobster Pound directly across the highway was intoxicating. It smelled like summer and fall at once.

At some point yesterday, I noticed that there is a bakery very close to the Trenton grange hall. Although they have a large selection of cakes and cupcakes, which are not really our thing, it also appeared that they had plenty of pastries including a few savory options ... and delicious-looking blueberry pie, which I've been craving for days now. We stopped by and because it was so late, many of the items were already out of stock for the day, but we were still able to pick up a few pastries for tomorrow's breakfast, in addition to the one remaining spinach-feta pastry and, of course, a slice of blueberry pie!

44-1(33)-11 - We were pretty sure that if we could access this area, we'd have a two-fer: not only this mark, but also the USGS mark K 3 very close by. As usual, we had scoped out the area on Street View and had a good idea where to search. We had even spotted on Street View, through the pixellated brush, a survey mark witness post, so we were even more sure we had the right spot. We parked in an empty lot very close to the coordinates and made our way through the prickly brush and conifers. Spotting the witness post easily, we began to look around for the marks. The first one we spotted, on a nicely exposed section of an outcrop, was this mark, the MaineDOT survey control mark. We cleaned it off and documented it with photos, and then moved on to search for K 3, just 36 feet away.

K 3 - Although K 3 was so close to the MaineDOT mark, I doubt we would have found it without the excellent references from the witness post and the trees that are still basically as described (rare to find, in our experience). The area was so heavily overgrown with touch spruce and blueberry and laurel and I don't even know what else, and no outcrops were visible other than the one we'd found earlier that held the MaineDOT mark. Fortunately the reference distances were short (6 feet from the witness post and 5 feet from the twin spruce trees) so we had a pretty good idea where it must be, but it was completely buried without a hint that anything was even there (other than some very old flagging tape we found lying nearby on the ground, and of course the witness post). I just happened to notice a small area between a triangle of roots that appeared unusually flat, and I wondered if there might be rock underneath. I scraped away a thick layer of soil and roots and found a nice outcrop! But no disk just yet. I scraped back toward myself, clearing off this little space bit by bit, and eventually uncovered a peek of the disk! We were thrilled! Just a bit more work (or maybe a lot more) and we had the whole disk cleared out and cleaned off. We sure worked for that one, and I doubt we ever would have found it without such solid references. Rich placed flagging tape around the area that should help the next person who wants to use the mark.

M 144 - Thanks again to JRO, we were pretty confident that we could find this mark. He described a large boulder and even specified where on the boulder the mark was set, which helped a lot in knowing where to clear off the surprising amount of soil, roots, and leaves that had accumulated since his visit only two years ago. Because, and only because, of his precise description, I was able to find the mark pretty easily. The layer of soil and roots pulled off pretty easily, and we just had to pull and cut a few extra roots, and brush away some loose soil, to clean off the area quite well. There was some evidence of fluorescent orange paint around the mark, but nothing recent. The stamping is also pretty faint and tricky to read, but ultimately it is legible. Note that while we parked at the nearby automobile dealer, we initially entered from the highway side, but this was messy and difficult walking. It is much easier to enter from the north end of the dealer lot, where there is essentially a path that enters the woods, from which it is very easy to reach the mark (just a few meters' walk through mostly open woods).

P 144 - This was our only not-found of the day, and I honestly wasn't surprised that we were unable to find it. We were searching using coordinates pulled from the topo map, which was suggested by JRO because he had attempted to use the provided coordinates as well as measurements from other nearby marks without success. It was only after his visit that he thought to check the coordinates from the USGS topo, only to find that they weren't quite in the same spot he was searching. So he requested that, if we had a chance, we check the topo coordinates the next time we were in the area. Well, we gave it a shot today, as our last attempt of the day. We found a utility pole that may have been the one referred to in the description, but it's difficult to know since the numbers have been changed since the description was written. The pole itself might even have been replaced in a different location. So that is a bit of a tenuous reference. We can of course measure the distance from the road centerline pretty accurately, if the road hasn't been shifted significantly. But searching the area at the intersection of the given distances from those references was immediately disheartening. I see no reason that the mark *wouldn't* be here; I just don't know how we would be able to find it beneath the many inches of accumulated soil, roots, and leaves atop the bedrock. In fact we didn't even see a hint of bedrock poking out anywhere, so it must be thoroughly buried, and quite deeply. 

We had been planning to make it a light-meal, snacky kind of day. Lunch was two of the items we'd bought at the bakery - the slice of blueberry pie and the spinach-feta croissant - which we ate on the porch after having driven through part of the park trying to find a nice overlook where we could sit and snack (we didn't see anything in the park, other than what appeared to be a particularly nasty motorcycle accident). The slice of blueberry pie was just what I had been looking for all week: flaky pastry, stuffed with wild blueberries, not too sweet. I loved every bite. And the spinach-feta pastry was just as good. Rich mentioned how much he liked the dough and asked if I could make something like it (I'm sure I could). 

The rest of the afternoon was spent going through our photos from the morning's adventures and working on some benchmark recoveries.

Earlier in the day, Rich said "How about we just do Rosalie's for supper?" Of course, I'm *always* up for that. So we decided to eat in the restaurant today rather than getting takeout, and we decided on a small pizza with extra sausage. 

Wanting to avoid the crazy crowds that we experienced at Rosalie's on Tuesday, we were sure to be waiting at the door by 3:40pm. And of course, we were the first ones there, and no one else showed up for over 10 minutes. We secured our place at the door, and then Rich happened to glance over toward the street corner and he suddenly gave a gasp and made a surprised face. "LOOK AT THAT!" he said. "It's a LOBSTER!" There was, indeed, a whole (we assume dead) real lobster perched on top of the trash can on the corner. He took photos of just because it was so incredibly bizarre, and a few other people noticed it and got a good laugh out of it, too. A couple from Austin, Texas were the next ones to appear and we chatted with them for a while, first about the lobster and then about the pizza (we wholeheartedly recommended the house veggie, which the lady said she would try) and then a bit about the park itself. Then the doors opened and we put our plan in place. I easily got the booth upstairs that we prefer while Rich ordered downstairs (this made us realize that we may not always be able to rely on ordering upstairs immediately, although the woman staffing the second floor did appear just a few minutes later). As usual, I went back downstairs to help him bring the beers up, and then we waited. Fortunately, for some reason, it wasn't busy at all tonight, and although there were a few other couples upstairs, coming and going, everyone was very quiet. We even bought some swag for Dad, a Rosalie's hat and a few stickers. Our extra sausage pizza was perfect, and just the right size to leave room for just a baby/child scoop of ice cream or sorbet at MDI Ice Cream. Rich had peach ice cream and I had the usual blueberry basil sorbet, both in sugar cones, which we ate in the Village Green on the first night that was really warm enough to do so.

Back at the room, we investigated a few more USGS BMs in the Trenton area, including one (K 1) that we can see on the Street View, and another (K 4) for which we think we can see the boulder into which it was set. Bonus for that one is that we just _have to_ drive by the bakery to reach it!